# EDA_case_study
  Description- This case study aims to give you an idea of applying EDA in a real business scenario. In this case study, apart from applying the techniques in the EDA module, you will also develop a basic understanding of risk analytics in banking and financial services and understand to analyse the data is used to minimise the risk of losing money while lending to customers.
# Business Objective
  Description- This case study aims to identify patterns which indicate if a client has difficulty paying their installments which may be used for taking actions such as denying the loan, reducing the amount of loan, lending (to risky applicants) at a higher interest rate, etc. This will ensure that the consumers capable of repaying the loan are not rejected. Identification of such applicants using EDA is the aim of this case study. In other words, the company wants to understand the driving factors (or driver variables) behind loan default, i.e. the variables which are strong indicators of default.  The company can utilise this knowledge for its portfolio and risk assessment. To develop your understanding of the domain, you are advised to independently research a little about risk analytics - understanding the types of variables and their significance should be enough).
# Data Understanding
  1. 'application_data.csv'  contains all the information of the client at the time of application. 
The data is about whether a client has payment difficulties.
 
2. 'previous_application.csv' contains information about the client’s previous loan data. It contains the data whether the previous application had been Approved, Cancelled, Refused or Unused offer.
 
3. 'columns_description.csv' is data dictionary which describes the meaning of the variables.
# Expected Results
  1. Data Understanding- All data quality issues are correctly identified and reported.
  2. Data Cleaning and Manipulation- Data quality issues are addressed (missing value imputation analysis and other kinds of data redundancies, etc.). If applicable, data is converted to a suitable and convenient format to work with using the right methods. Manipulation of strings and dates is done wherever required.
  3. Data Analysis- The analysis has a clear structure and the flow is easy to understand. Univariate and segmented univariate analysis is done correctly and appropriate realistic assumptions are made wherever required. The analyses successfully identify at least the 5 important driver variables (i.e. variables which are strong indicators of default). Bivariate analysis is performed correctly and is able to identify the important combinations of driver variables. The combinations of variables are chosen such that they make business or analytical sense. Appropriate plots are created to present the results of the analysis. The choice of plots for respective cases is correct. The plots should clearly present the relevant insights and should be easy to read. The axes and important data points are labelled correctly.
  4. Presentations and Recommendations- The presentation has a clear structure, is not too long, and explains the most important results concisely in simple language. The recommendations to solve the problems are realistic, actionable and coherent with the analysis. If any assumptions are made, they are stated clearly.
  5. Conciseness and readability of the code- The code is concise and syntactically correct. Wherever appropriate, built-in functions and standard libraries are used instead of writing long code (if-else statements, for loops, etc.). Custom functions are used to perform repetitive tasks. The code is readable with appropriately named variables and detailed comments are written wherever necessary.
